The <svg> tag is used to define an SVG (Scalable Vector Graphic), which is a type of image format that uses XML-based code to describe 2D graphics. It's widely used on websites because SVG images can scale to any size without losing quality, unlike raster images (like PNG or JPEG).

Let’s break down the specific attributes in the <svg> tag you've provided:

<svg xmlns="http://www.w3.org/2000/svg" fill="none" viewBox="0 0 24 24" stroke="currentColor" class="w-6 h-6">
xmlns="http://www.w3.org/2000/svg":

This is the XML namespace declaration. It tells the browser that this SVG code uses the SVG namespace, which is necessary for the browser to correctly interpret the contents of the SVG.
fill="none":

This sets the fill color of the SVG's shapes to "none," meaning there is no internal color filled in the shapes (e.g., the lines inside the SVG). This is often used in icons where the stroke (outline) color is more important than the interior color.
If you wanted the inside of the shapes to be filled with a color, you'd set this to a color like fill="red".
viewBox="0 0 24 24":

This defines the coordinate system of the SVG, which allows it to scale properly. The viewBox attribute takes four values: min-x, min-y, width, and height.
viewBox="0 0 24 24" means the SVG’s drawing area starts at (0,0) and has a width and height of 24 units. This is a common setting for icons, making them easily scalable without distortion.
stroke="currentColor":

This defines the stroke (outline) color of the SVG shapes. The currentColor value means that the stroke color will inherit the current text color (color property) of the element in which the SVG is placed.
This is useful for making the SVG icon’s color consistent with the surrounding text. For example, if the text color is red, the stroke of the icon will also be red.
class="w-6 h-6":

These are Tailwind CSS utility classes that control the width (w-6) and height (h-6) of the SVG. The values (6) correspond to a certain pixel size, in this case, 1.5rem or 24px (as per Tailwind's default spacing scale).
The class w-6 h-6 ensures the icon has a uniform size (24px by 24px) but can be adjusted by modifying the w- and h- classes.
Example Usage:
In your example, the <svg> code is defining an icon (likely a hamburger menu icon), where:

The lines of the icon are created using strokes (outlines).
The no fill (fill="none") ensures that the inside of the lines isn’t filled with any color.
The stroke color will match the current text color (currentColor), allowing the icon to take the same color as the surrounding text (e.g., white, black, or whatever the text color is set to).
The viewBox of 24x24 ensures that the icon scales properly.
The width and height are set to 24px (w-6 h-6), giving it a specific size.
Why Use SVG for Icons?
Scalability: SVGs are vector-based, meaning they scale without losing quality. You can resize the icon to any size without it becoming pixelated.
Customizability: You can easily change the color, size, and even animate SVG icons using CSS.
Lightweight: SVG files are usually smaller in file size compared to other formats (e.g., PNG, JPEG) for simple icons.

source chatgpt

summary:
basically helps to resize the 2d image without losing pixels(used for hamburger icon)